We talked about pre-trained models, so
let's actually start to
do it in JavaScript.
So if you've cloned the repository,
if people have not,
I'm just gonna mention the URL quickly.
So github.com/charliegerald/fem,
for Frontend Masters, -ml-workshop.
You can clone everything in there.
And if you then navigate to
the folder called Exercises and
then Project 1,
if I open the folder here, so
I'm gonna go through the files
that are already in there.
So I have code that is pre-written, and
then we're going to write the parts
that are specific to machine learning.
When you work with TensorFlow in
JavaScript, TensorFlow is just a library,
the code that you're writing is not
completely just machine learning.
So here I have a utils file in which I
wrote a few JavaScript functions that
have nothing to do with TensorFlow.js,
but just to help in the UI.
So here I have a first function
that's just showResults().
Because when you're returning the output
from the model, you can just log it to
the browser console, but sometimes
it's nice to see it on the screen.
So it's just some dumb manipulation.
I'm just getting an element, and then
I'm appending the labels to the screen.
So this is just a helper function,
you don't have to use it.
If you just want to see the outputs in
the browser console, you can do that.
And then I just have a handleFilePicker
function because what we're gonna do in
the first exercise, so if you go back
to the terminal and you run npm watch.
It should open, and
at the moment if you click,
nothing is gonna happen because
we didn't write the code.
But it's a simple UI with a button,
Choose File, and
when we're gonna click on it,
it's gonna open the file picker.
So we're gonna choose an image.
If you have already an image ready in your
desktop or if you can go to Google and
download an image of a cat, or a dog,
or a car, feel free to do this.
But we're gonna open the file picker,
we're gonna pick an image that we
have saved locally on our desktop.
And that's going to be given to
the machine learning model, and
we're gonna get the prediction on screen.
So at the moment, the UI is very
simple to use the pre-trained models.
So if we go back to our code in the utils
file, the handleFilePicker function
is some normal like vanilla JavaScript
that uses the file reader with API.
So again, that's not directly
related to machine learning.
If you have implemented something that
was using the file picker before,
you might have even written this code,
but not with machine learning.
So just to go through what it does,
I'm just getting an element.
And on, oops, onChange, I'm just checking
that it's an image then I select it,
otherwise, if it's not, then we return.
You could add an error message
here to the user saying,
make sure you select an image and
not a PDF, for example.
And then here with your extension and
with your file reader, and onLoad,
we are gonna create an image element and
we're going to kind of load
the image that we selected onto it.
And this is the part here,
that's just like a callback function and
that's going to be in Javascript or
in Tensorflow.js, our predict function.
So now, this is just the two details
function that we're gonna use.
But let's write some TensorFlow.
Okay, so if you open the part1.js file,
so there is nothing in it right now,
and we are going to add our kinda
like image detection logic.
So the first thing that we need
to do is import TensorFlow.js.
So if we import, oops, tensorflow, and
we're gonna just import
the whole TensorFlow.js library.
And then we also need to
actually import the model.
So the model that we're going
to use here is called CocoSSD.
It's an image detection model.
So we import everything in the CocoSSD,
yep, from, and then coco-ssd.
So I forgot to mention I had
already done it before, but
if you have not run npm install
in the terminal here, oops,
not here, in the terminal her
before running npm run watch,
you need to do that to be able to actually
use the packages that we just imported.
So just to show you here,
I had written them before, so
this one we'll use later, but first,
coco detection is the one here.
And so if you run npm install,
it is going to install them and
we're gonna be able to
use them in the code.
So at the moment,
we just imported TensorFlow.js, and
we just imported the pre-trained model.
So what we can do now is just
create a model variable.
And we're going to use it
in two different places.
So we just declare it here, and then we're
gonna use it in the rest of the functions.
So before you can actually use
the model to predict something,
you actually have to load that model.
It's like kind of the way
you instantiate an object.
So we're gonna just
write a function in it.
That's gonna be an async function.
Oops, and yeah, so the first step,
we need to load it.
So the way that you can do
that is on CocoSSD, and
on a lot of TensorFlow.js models,
you can call a load method.
Sometimes there's a bit of a difference as
other methods that you can call as well.
But for CocoSSD,
you're gonna load the model and
we store it into our model variable.
And what we do next is that because we
want to use this model when the image
from the is loaded, we actually need to
call our handleFilePicker util method.
So file picker, and
if you use VS Code it probably or
might have been imported directly.
Otherwise, it's you write it here,
so you import the function
handleFilePicker from the utils.
And if we go back quickly to what this
does, as I was mentioning before,
it takes in a callback function,
because this callback function is going
to be used when the image is loaded.
So once we've selected
it from the file picker,
we're directly going to feed that image
to the predict function of the model.
So here we're just gonna pass it
a function we have not written yet, but
it's gonna be called predict, and
we're going to to write it right now.
So now if you write the function predict,
also an async function, and
we pass it the image element.
When we call the function on the model,
it'll produce predictions, so
we're gonna have a variable
called predictions.
And what we can do is that because we have
the model available, we can do model dot,
oops, and then detect is the method
that you can call on the model.
And we're going to pass
it the image element.
And here at this point,
you can either console log it,
console log the predictions,
or you can also, if you want,
import the showResult function
that's in the utils as well.
So here, again, if you use VS Code,
it might have done it automatically,
otherwise you just need to add
showResult on this line here at the top.
And at this point, all we need to do then,
is actually call our init function.
And now, if you have installed and
if you've written this code and
if you go back to the browser and
you refresh, what should happen?
Is when you click Choose File,
it opens to the file picker.
And then here I have
an image of a little cat.
I have prediction cat and
probability 0.98.
So the predictions or the probabilities
come back as a number between 0 and 1.
And 0.98 just mean that the model
is 98% confident that what's
in the image is a cat.
So in this [LAUGH] case, that is
basically all the code that you need to
just use a pre-trained
model in TensorFlow.js.
And in general, even if you use other
tools, that's the real purpose or
the real benefit of using
a pre-trained model.
It really reduces the amount of code
that you have to write yourself to
actually start and
get a result and get predictions.
So as I was saying before, using this
model here, I have a picture of a cat and
it was right, but
there's a lot of cats on the Internet.
So if this model was
trained with Google images,
then it's pretty nice that
you can recognize the cat.
But if you have other
images on your desktop and
the model wasn't trained with that,
you might end up noticing that either
the label is wrong and then
the probability might be lower as well.
And this is what I was mentioning before,
is that I did not find what
CocoSSD was actually trained with.
I could have maybe done more research,
but I think at some point,
I don't have the image here, but I had
a cooking class with my work team and
I took a picture of the, it was a risotto.
We made a risotto and
I just tried it with it, and
I think it detected that it was a truck or
something, which is not at all that.
So it means that, obviously, CocoSSD was
not trained with images of risottos.
So it just tried to find whatever is
closest in its training data to what it
was trained with.
So I don't know how risotto
can be close to a truck.
But maybe all the rest
of the images were so
far from that,
that it thought that it was a truck.
So again, depending on what you decide
to build, if what you want to do
is build an app that detects animals,
then you should be fine.
Or, you have a question?
>> Yeah, so the CocoSSD is 7K?
And I'm assuming if you wanted
to get more accurate models,
it would be far, far larger,
cuz that's a pretty small model.
>> Yes, so it's definitely possible, but
again, it depends on what you want to do.
Because then if you make your own and
it's more tuned to the images you want to
detect, then you might
not need that much data.
So it really depends on what you wanna do.
And with pre-trained models,
what's difficult is that, obviously,
if you want to do your own custom thing,
it might be very different
from the data that was used.
So, of course, more data is better.
But again, the model is just
the output of the training data.
So the model does not
contain all of the images.
The images were fed into the algorithm
that then updated a model,
and some models are heavier than others,
but it's not going to be
as big as the gigabytes of
data that you trained it with.
So it's possible that maybe it's the size,
but it's also optimized for
it to be used in the browser.
So it really depends on
what you want to do.
Cuz there's another model called
MobileNet, and I don't know how
much bigger it is, but actually felt
that when I was using MobileNet,
I had lower accuracy
than with using CocoSSD.
So it could have been that the data that
was trained to use MobileNet was even
further than what I needed,
maybe there were no cats in MobileNet or
no risotto or whatever.
But sometimes I just actually didn't
look at the size of MobileNet.
So maybe it is related, but
also it's like, I mean, yeah, gzip is 2.8.
So I would say it depends as
a classic senior engineer.
[LAUGH]
>> It's just amazing to me that it's that
small that you could easily
put this in a web app.
>> That's the whole
point of Tensorflow.js,
is to be able to actually build machine
learning applications in JavaScript.
So again, as I said, if you use an image
and it was tuned to it, then it's great.
But again, it will depend on what
you actually want to predict.
Maybe sometimes it might not know what
a pin is, or a glass, or a phone.
So it's gonna be a bit of trial and
error and see what works for you.
But in terms of steps that you
have to take, you import it,
then you load the model.
Then here I have some utils, but you
don't even have to write a file picker.
If you wanted,
you could just add an image tag here with
the source to a local image or
a remote image hosted somewhere,
and all you would need to do is get that.
Don't write that because it's not gonna
work, but if you're just doing a document,
getElementsByTagName like image,
something like that,
then you would be able to pass that in and
that would be all you need.
So I just tried to be
a bit more interactive so
that you can let the user pick
an image that they want to detect.
But it could be just as quick
as having a tag with an image,
then getting it in JavaScript and
feeding it to the model.